---
description: 'Meta description: The Webslice platform makes scalable serverless hosting more reliable, easy to use and compatible with PHP and WordPress'
author: ef9ed893-3cea-4050-91d5-b333e8f9ad02
title: 'Why Webslice? Because no other web hosting platform solves these four big problems'
subheader: 'Scalability, reliability, PHP compatibility, and ease of use - you don''t need to make trade-offs anymore'
updated_by: fa61bd1a-7054-4dd6-974f-a1764a47c4ec
updated_at: 1634693458
id: 4dfd2190-2396-48bf-8b13-dc59de45fdb3
published: false
---
Serverless hosting is the future. This is one of the big beliefs that powers the Webslice team. We’ve seen how well serverless hosting solves some long-standing web hosting problems, especially instant scaling. 

But nothing’s perfect and the switch to serverless hosting can also introduce some new issues. Your serverless set-up needs to be reliable, compatible with your current websites and easy to use. Before now these things haven’t always been easy (or, in some cases, even possible).

Webslice comes with reliability, compatibility and ease of use all built in. That’s how it opens up the big promise of serverless to more of the internet than ever before. With all of these issues finally solved for a massive percentage of the world’s websites, we can’t wait to see how many of them go serverless with Webslice.

## Problem #1: Automatic & Instant Scaling

Traditional hosting platforms, like a VPS, where you choose a plan that specifies your exact hosting resources have been a staple of the industry for years. But they have always had a scale problem. What would happen if you appeared on the front page of Reddit? Or you had a massive sale that drove 10x your normal numbers?

In many cases servers crashed, sales were lost and people were upset. As the industry and tech matured we started utilising clusters of servers behind load balancers to help with this problem, and AWS introduced auto-scaling for their EC2 VPS platform. But that still didn't solve the problem. You had to configure your scaling, and you still had to predict large scale events (easier for things like sales than unplanned appearances on Reddit), and auto-scaling detection usually took minutes to kick in - minutes during which you still suffered from outages and lost business.

Serverless hosting solves this problem. Your websites are never bound to a specific server so there's no downtime to scale up resources. They simply horizontally scale as far and wide as they need to, instantly. Overloading will never bring your site down, and if you go through a quiet patch your hosting resources (and your bill) can scale to zero.

In the real world, with Webslice, your website can effectively idle along and cost you almost nothing, then instantly scale whenever a surge of visitors arrives. When instant scaling kicks in your site can handle thousands of concurrent customers without breaking a sweat.

## Problem #2: Surviving infrastructure crashes and single points of failure

It’s not only hoards of visitors that can crash websites, though. Almost every single person reading this post would have had a website or application go offline when a server crashes or infrastructure fails. To be clear some downtime is inevitable — computers and the internet are fickle after all — but the risk is minimized when you have no single points of failure.

In simple terms this means that every piece of infrastructure that you run has at least one equivalent piece in place, ready to take over if something goes wrong. This literally renders every piece of infrastructure redundant, in the sense that the system will continue to operate just fine without it. You also need the backup pieces to automatically start working (or “failover”) whenever they’re needed. In many cases high quality system architecture requires many redundant failover systems.

The trouble is that designing, building and maintaining infrastructure like that is hugely time consuming and expensive. For example, if you wanted to run WordPress on serverless AWS infrastructure, here’s their recommended architecture (which comes with a 34-page whitepaper):

![Amazon EFS connects to 8 services and 2 WordPress instances arranged in 2 parallel availablity zones which, along with a single load balancer are found within a single VPC, which in turn connects via an Internet Gateway back to CloudFront and an S3 bucket which, via Amazon Route S3, gets a WordPress site to the public](/assets/wordpress-on-aws.png)

With Webslice we've done the architecture for you. The infrastructure is ready and waiting, and the entire platform is built to withstand failures and gracefully failover. Websites on Webslice will always be running across multiple servers in multiple datacentres, giving you as much reliability as possible. If any part of the system fails you probably won’t even notice, and visitors to your website definitely won’t.

## Problem #3: Getting everyday websites to go serverless without endless hassle

If serverless solves the scaling problem and failsafe architectures already exist for systems like WordPress, why isn’t everyone going serverless already? 

Short answer: because it's not that simple.

The majority of today’s websites are dynamic PHP sites, powered by a CMS and database like WordPress or Craft. These sites don't naturally run in serverless environments due to a shared state problem. In practical terms this means that updates won’t occur, plugins can stop working and storing images and other files becomes difficult. To get the benefits of serverless infrastructure without kneecapping your CMS you’d need to start again, rebuilding your entire website from scratch.

This is a huge amount of work, and even though the benefits of serverless are real they’re almost always outweighed by the cost of a complete rebuild. Webslice takes away all of those costs by letting you run PHP sites, including WordPress, without making any changes and without changing what your CMS does or how you work with it.

We'll get into all the details another day, but it's safe to say you can bring your existing PHP site, like WordPress and it will work out of the box on Webslice. This has been one of our [big goals since day one](/blog/from-the-first-time-we-presented-webslice-serverless-wordpress-was-the-dream). How did we do it? That’s a long story, but it involves building our own file system. Yeah, we know...

## Problem #4: Managing your hosting easily

Finally, there’s the problem of making a hosting platform easy to use. This isn’t only an issue for serverless platforms, but they’re more susceptible because serverless hosting is inherently complex.

We're building Webslice to be super simple to use. You don't need to understand or even think about the things we're talking about above. If you’ve already forgotten the term “failover redundancy” and “auto-scaling detection”, that’s okay (and completely understandable). If you’re worried that you’ll need to learn the plethora of services AWS and Google offer (like the ones all tied together in AWS’s complicated diagram above), don’t be. And while you’re at it, forget all about managing or patching servers.

If you know how to use Git, or upload files via your browser and set up a DNS zone you're good to go. (And if you need a bit of help with any of that, it’s available.) You can be up and running, in a full serverless environment and reaping the rewards in a matter of minutes.

## Four problems solved, one platform to watch

We believe that Webslice is the only platform that can boast such thorough solutions to these four big web hosting problems. If you’re running a PHP website today and you want to go serverless as quickly and easily as possible, join our mailing list (you can do that [on our homepage](https://www.webslice.com)) and you’ll hear as soon as our Beta opens later this year.