---
id: 45c7425e-e593-4d03-a3f9-e56bd15dd78d
blueprint: blog
template: blog/blog
title: 'Beat The .NZ Price Rise'
subheader: 'The price of .nz is going up, but we''ve got a way for you to beat the rise and get some account credit at the same time, you''ll just need to be quick.'
template_global: /global/default_image
default_image: photo-1593754500229-c3f5b58b388f-1638233416.jpeg
updated_by: bdf0548e-f14e-4b7d-9abd-d2223cb02cec
updated_at: 1657592342
---
In late February, [InternetNZ the non-profit behind .nz domains](https://registry.internetnz.nz/) advised all registrars (that’s companies like us) that they will be increasing prices as of June 1st (note this is now delayed until 1 October 2020 due to COVID-19). That means that all .nz domains are going to get a bit more expensive – but fear not, in response we’re running a promotion to help you get your domains organised under one roof and renewed before the rise kicks in.

It’s pretty simple: If you Register or Transfer any .nz domain into your SiteHost account from another registrar between **9 March 2020 to 1 October 2020** not only will you beat the price increase we will also give you up to $5.00 account credit per domain that you can use towards whatever you like, be it hosting, more domains or your domain renewals next year.

That’s it, easy! You can view a few more details and answers to common questions below, but otherwise we look forward to helping you get your domains sorted.

### **Are there any transfer fees?**

No.

### **What are our domain prices?**

You can find [pricing on our website here](https://sitehost.nz/services/reseller-solutions). You'll find they're competitive and they get cheaper the more domains you have with us.

### **What do you mean by "up to a $5 account credit"?**

The account credit applied for each domain will be dependent on the number of domains you transfer or register with us. The domains need to be registered or transferred by end of business 30th of September. The tiers are:

|||
|--- |--- |
|1-19 domains|$35.00 per domain|
|20-49 domains|$29.00 per domain|
|50-99 domains|$25.50 per domain|
|100-249 domains|$24.50 per domain|
|250-499 domains|$23.50 per domain|
|500-999 domains|$22.50 per domain|
|1000+ domains|$20.00 per domain|


### **When will the credit be applied?**

At the start of October we will review your account and will apply the credit for every completed inbound transfer and registered domain.

### **Can SiteHost help transfer my domains?**

Yes. We have completed many mass domain migrations and will be more than happy to help with yours. We may need to charge for our time depending on how complex the migration is. [Talk to us](https://sitehost.nz/contact).

### **What will happen on October 1st?**

The pricing on our .nz domains will increase to the below. Our current pricing [can be found here](https://sitehost.nz/services/reseller-solutions).

[Untitled](https://www.notion.so/f9e067507c5843d486add8a4fdf9aadc)

### **Are there any rules or conditions?**

Don’t try and abuse the offer. We don’t want to, but we reserve the right to withhold or reverse any account credit for any reason. An example would be when we suspect that you’re trying to cheat the system by transferring domains in and back out, or transferring domains between SiteHost accounts and even our sister brands for example.

We also won't apply any credit in situations where we have done a free bulk transfer of domains for you. In short, play nice and everyone will be happy.